The preservation is handled by the fact of keeping them as cool as can it, and keeping them between the mileage sheets, and keeping them dry.
The other type of security, of course, is theft.
And we mentioned that a couple minutes ago, or a couple minutes ago.
In another context.
In another context, that these things are really not stealable unless you want to look at them in your basement.
Most of the greatest manuscripts, everybody knows where they are.
And so stealing them, you're not going to be able to walk into a store and say, how would you like to buy this great manuscript, the Constitution of the Confederate States of America.
Almost every university knows what it is.
Most dealers know what it is.
And anybody who's not a dealer or a university is not going to buy that thing.
They wouldn't know what the value is.
And therefore, they're almost not saleable.
And therefore, they're not stealable.
But then you do have a Steven Blumberg.
You know the guy out in Iowa who sold 18,000 documents to the FBI?
Oh, okay, no, but were those traceable documents?
Yeah, but he didn't care.
He didn't buy them to sell.
He stored them in a house.
Yeah, there are exceptions of people who just, maybe like just to steal, it's hard to say.
But what I'm hoping is that you have some program that... Oh, well, obviously, even though they're not stealable, we don't leave them out on the coffee table either.
What we have is we have a vault.
It sounds like a football said they're not steelable.
Then I'll tell you about the vault.
Well, I'm glad to hear about the vault.
The vault is a foot thick with steel, a cement with steel in it, and the inside of the vault is lined with pure steel.
Top sides, everything is lined with pure steel.
So even if someone was able to jackhammer through, they would hit the steel
shell inside the vault.
And inside the vault, if anybody was able to get inside the vault, there are several alarm systems which would go off saying someone's inside the vault.
There are alarm systems outside the vault, too.
Is it a walk-in kind of vault?
Yeah.
10 feet by 30 feet by... 10 feet tall, 30 feet tall.
But once you get inside, the alarms must have gone off several times.
From the outside of the vault, near the vault, and inside the vault.
Security's good.
Yeah.
And inside the vault, once you get inside the vault, the manuscripts aren't safes inside the vault.
So once you get in, you have to be a safe tracker, even after you get in this vault.
That's what I wanted to hear.
That's when they're in the vault.
Now, when they're in the museums on exhibit, some of them are placed in a regular safe, like a jeweler's safe.
uh overnight and some of them are just left in the cases and but we do have what's called security alarm system which is a company that has a system has uh sensors of various types around and if anybody's in the building after the computer goes it will bring up the uh police station and the police will be there
He's still in the process of forming what he wants to do.
He's got another 30, 40 years to figure out.
I think he has to get four children.
Mm-hmm.
We just married one off on Sunday.
We're just waiting for weddings.
And we exhibited the wedding march and the procession.
In other words.
You have a manuscript.
Exactly.
This is by who?
By, if you'll notice, right here, Mendelssohn and Bodnar.
And the photographer is coming today to take a picture of the manuscripts, and he's going to superimpose the picture.
That's great.
That's really great.
You have to be very proud of him.
I really am.
I know.
He has a lot of creativity and a lot of vision.
I do.
But I think that he could do it if he had anything he could think.
Because you'd be using your energies elsewhere.
Did you ever think that it was kind of quixotic?
You did.
You thought that, my God, what are we doing?
A million manuscripts.
But at the same time, I had this bearing that people can choose what they want to do with their lives.
Some people travel and other people collect clothes, paintings or whatever, and this is what we do.
Which of your children was married?
I think I'll use them.
My daughter, Cheryl.
How do we spell that?
C-H-E-R-Y-L.
And she was married on Saturday on August 4th.
At the library.
She was married on the lawn here.
And then we went over to the library.
And we had an incredible place.
The best wedding I've ever been to.
It just occurred.
You would still be recovering from that.
I am still high from it.
It was so wonderful.
And this is the first of your children that you married?
This is the third child that we have married in the same manner.
We get better and better at it.
Have you exhibited the wedding watch?
No, this is the first time we've done it.
Have you exhibited other things?
That was a stroke of inspiration, really, wasn't it?
I think so.
That's a great story.
I have really one question to ask, and then maybe if you could show us a few things.
I guess, and it's a philosophical kind of question, but I guess do you feel that you're
you're building your legacy oh that's one word yeah yeah was this ever paramount in your thoughts or was it really were you too kind of uh preoccupied with getting all this stuff no i was never preoccupied at all no well i'm not sure about that i don't have to think about that well but but i mean the thought that you this is an opportunity to create to
leave something to build something meaningful significant if you read this whatever it is i have your credo or whatever you want to call it when i was and this is it says the same thing i guess but when i was a kid i remember i knew who simon bolivar was i knew who the the quest for the indies i knew who fleming in the back scene i knew all of these things mainly out of comic books but i knew them you know a classic comic or whatever and
When we were fairly young, and our kids were young, they didn't seem to know.
We'd ask them, who is Simone Bolivar?
We'd mention a few names, and they didn't know anybody.
I mean, nothing about history.
All they knew was rock and roll stars, it seemed, or whatever.
Even though our kids are not rough kids.
No, it's true, because education has become practice, and when the kids are in a country.
Yeah, right.
And they seem to have, as I say now, no goals.
They seem to have no hope, pride for the teacher, nothing.
They don't care what they're going to be when they grow up.
You know, what do you got me to grow up?
I don't know.
Whatever happens, you know, it'll fall on me.
And this disturbed me because I think the world is heading the wrong way.
I thought I could see the world heading towards the wrong way, I guess.
When people have goals and a sense of purpose,
Then I think we're advancing and we have something to look forward to and people will be happier.
I don't think these kids are going to be happy.
I think they're going to be miserable when they grow up because they have no goals.
They have nothing to look forward to.
And that's essentially why we started the library.
It's because we wanted, our first idea was to attack the kids.
But we realized that we can't, that's not going to be easy.
We're going to have to do it.
The kids are going to have to sort of come with the adults.
The adults are going to have to see it and the kids are going to have to come slowly.
Eventually, when we have the number of exhibit halls we want, then we're going to try to pull in the schools by, as I mentioned to you before, we're going to perhaps have, well, we'll certainly have exhibits.
Schools will come by buses, which they do anyway now, but we will have contests where the kids will write out something, a little essay.
Stimulating.
Yeah.
Hopefully they'll use the library, and they will look into history, look into science, look into literature, and go back to the... I hope I'm proud that you have Mr. Teacher in you, actually.
I think Jill Maddalena said something that I've been thinking about for a long time, last time we saw him.
He said, kids, they're not acceptable anymore, but they didn't work.
They're acceptable by video.
True.
And he suggested that we take our show, think up or not, and have our video format.
When we'll ever do that.
I think I've pretty well covered it.
You know, what we might want to do is just give you a little clue of the house here, because we do use, we do have some books online, and the books are used to research documents.
And they're not rare books.
They're just reference books.
And so we could show that.
Let's do it.
What?
Edward, let's do it.
Yeah.
Let's go take a picture.
There's a private research library.
Three libraries.
Well, this is.
No one gets to see this one.
I don't know.
Some people do it.
This is a gorgeous house one.
Thank you.
Now, is this the house that you built?
We built most of it.
It was a private research library.
Here's my way.
This is a, wow.
When I come down whenever I have a document, I'll come down and I'll go in various sections and I'll go through the sections of some book that will... And what do you call this room?
This is our own private library.
We're about to build a small library adjacent to our house.
Oh, very nice.
And we have a small library.
Connie, hold your breath on this.
Hold your breath.
Do you mind if I take a picture of you and your wife in here?
Oh, no.
The Proclamation of Statehood of California.
That's a zero.
Do you have the original?
Yeah.
The Proclamation of Statehood of California.
Now, why isn't California on that?
That's a good question.
If they did, it would probably be soggy at the moment.
What was the year on it?
1849?
Yeah, 1849.
I'm delighted that it's here in the same place, but you wonder why it's not in Sacramento or wherever.
That's a good question.
I didn't have the answer to that.
They probably have a printed copy.
How would you describe the architecture of this house?
Italian Mediterranean or Mediterranean?
What's the style of your house?
Mallorca.
Mallorca?
I don't know, I've never heard of Mallorca.
Sure, Mallorca is an island.
Oh, who knows.
It's beautiful.
It's actually rebuilt, this part, and we tried to match it to the original part.
I don't know, it seems eight beams, magnificent.
And the original house is how old?
The original house is 1915.
This edition is 1978, I would guess.
And then the dining room, which you haven't seen, is 1982.
And who owned the original house?
There's only been four owners.
Prior to last, there was the owner of Western Petro Savings and Loans.
And then there was a general...
The general.
And then part of that, the Coleman family.
So it probably would have been the Colemans who built it then?
Yes, I believe it was the Colemans who built it.
Wow.
How old was it around?
About three acres.
What are the dimensions of this one?
It's like, everybody, 16, I believe.
That's not what you want, right?
Yeah.
And it's 16 feet tall, I believe.
There must be a great feeling, Mr. Simmons, and Scooter Vimler.
I gather that's an original Scooter Vimler.
No, no, he's a Christian.
I've got a flex thing, but I don't know.
As you see, I flex down these things.
And the wood is a little bit old.
That's just right out of the lumber yard.
When I collect certain things like bronze, I look used to rather than authentic authorization.
The Metropolitan, I think, said, and don't quote me, because when I quote something, it's just what other people quote me.
Some of the Metropolitan ones said that they felt that
at least 50% of all of their paintings are for Jews.
What was it?
50% are all appropriate, but they said they are.
Even though they paid millions of dollars for them, they are such good works, they're worth it.
That's right.
I mean, if Shakespeare didn't write Shakespeare, some of them know that.
Yeah, right, some of them know that.
That's right, exactly.
Or somebody paid, even though he copied it.
That's right.
Manuscripts are different, but on the bronze and whatever else you have.
If I think it's really a fine work, and I think I can tell them, then that's fine with me.
I don't mind if it's a copy.
The passion is tremendous.
Yeah, the manuscript, on the other hand, that's... I hate to think of a manuscript that was... That would not only... And I'm sure there's at least one or two percent... Yeah, I think it's very, very low.
It's extremely difficult to go into manuscripts.
Not only do you have to get the right paper, the old paper, which a collector can tell very quickly just by being with it, working with old ink, which is what you can tell very simply, you have to have that old ink on the old paper.
And that's not easy, because if you find old ink in old paper, and you try to write a copy of manuscript, the ink will spider out because the paper's old, and therefore you can't copy.
People can still do it, though.
Oh, they can do it if they use chemicals to fix the ink and paper, but then it's easily to detect it.
We have a black light, it's called, which we can shine on, and some chemicals will fluoresce, and old ink and old paper do not have those same chemicals, so it won't fluoresce, and so you just shine, put it under a black light, and if you see any fluorescence in it, you know some of these.
Well, would you have taken a shot at the Hitlers, the alleged Hitlers?
Oh, I would have loved—well, they used—Randell used—there's only three or four speeches known that I love Hitlers, and he used a manuscript we had to— You have a Hitlers?
We have two of the four speeches.
The National Archives has two, and we have two.
And Rendell used ours to disauthenticate.
He was the one who said, no, they're no good.
Yeah, that kind of made his name.
How about Glenn Hoffman?
Did he ever approach you?
No, I didn't know Hoffman.
I never did know Hoffman, which was surprising.
And his forgeries are tough, because even though he used this fixative, so you can see it when you put a...
with black light on it.
He also used an ink... He used a fixative that didn't fluoresce in some cases, but it did make the ink ball up into tiny little microscopic spots.
And it sounds like he was looking under high power to determine whether these spots are there, but it's not that easy.
Rendell has some photos, and you say, well, okay, look, here's a...
You tell me where those spots are on this photo.
Do you become a handwriting expert?
Just by experience, you have to become a handwriting expert.
Not only is it paper and ink, and the combination of paper and ink, but then of course you have to know how the guy made his letters.
Every single letter has to be similar to what Henry VIII did.
But they changed in different parts of their life.
So you have to look at the date and a date of a similar letter and compare them.
Not only just the letters, but every combination of two letters meets in a certain way.
So you're not talking about 26 things.
You're talking about 26, time is 26, different combinations that someone has to know his head and has to be able to write quickly while he's thinking of this hundreds of different combinations.
And you can practice.
Well, it's almost impossible to do it.
But you have a feel, you know it.
You can pretty much...
Because if someone tries to go write slow, think of what the combination should look like and then write it slow, you will see where the pen stopped, for example.
You also can tell if he's writing slow, because when they write fast, the lines get
thin and thick and so forth.
And if the lines are even all the way along, you know the guy's copying.
That's amazing.
And then, the ultimate thing, you have to know what the guy would have wrote, what content he would have put in there.
That's what blew the Hitler Diaries away, I think.
I mean, the chemistry was wrong, the table was wrong.
The fibers in the binding was huge.
What is the oldest manuscript that you have, would you say?
Well, we have, as you'll see when we go down, in the downtown museum, we have 4,000 B.C.
documents and so forth, clay tablets with Sumerian writings and so forth.
The one that I would say, in my estimation, is the oldest.
Now, I'm more interested in the important documents.
What's the oldest important document?
And the oldest one that we have is a document of Pope Lucius III from 1183, I believe it is, which is quite a few years ago.
800 years?
Yes, right.
And this was a letter proclaiming the sacred duty of the Knights of Holy Crusade.
Wow.
the knights on that's that's amazing that stuff is out there i think that's my favorite document because if you find a document from the 1100s it's almost impossible you don't they're they come up once every 10 years but to find one where you're where the pope is initiating the holy crusades that's unbelievable where'd you pay for that oh gosh i don't even remember you must have an idea i don't remember
Not real big bucks, not what it's worth.
Well, that's the smart buyer.
But it wasn't small, but it wasn't.
Good.
And you're thrilled to have it.
Oh, absolutely.
In fact, four times in my life have I ever written anybody that I have purchased a document and actually formally thanked them for the privilege of letting me buy it.
And that was one of them.
Because I thought it was horror and excessive.
It was a special, special thing.
And to whom did you write that letter?
I forget it.
What else do we wrote it?
Well, we got the Confederate Constitution.
We wrote it.
You got the Confederate Constitution.
Yes.
That one was the one where we have the most inner feeling on because this was in the University of Georgia.
It had been there for 100 years, and everybody could see it, who was down south.
And all of a sudden, walked in the
Supreme Court Justice of the State of Georgia, and says, I'm afraid my family would like our Constitution back.
And they said, what do you mean your Constitution?
And he says, what can you file?
It's only on loan.
It's been on loan for 100 years from our family.
What was the name of the family?
I'll check it out.
I'm wondering where I would check that out.
I'd have to look it up.
TRR somebody.
OK, forget it.
Yeah.
At any rate, so they said, well, you know, why do you want it back?
And the guy said, we need the money.
And they said, well, let us buy it somehow, and we'll try to raise the money.
And they tried, and no one would donate because it's not raised.
Why should they donate to buy it?
Because the university already owns it.
They must.
It's been there for 100 years.
They couldn't raise the money.
They couldn't sell it.
I mean, they couldn't raise the money.
And so they decided they would have to somehow sell it.
Actually, what happened was they decided to ask all the book dealers if they would somehow donate, or find people to donate, and that's how I learned from a book dealer saying, gee, they're looking for donations for this document, and here it is, and oh, my God, that's unbelievable.
Never occurred you to donate it?
Oh, no, I didn't think about donating.
I was just going to tell them, listen, why not sell it?
And we will exhibit it every so many years.
Wouldn't you buy it?
This was about 10 years ago, I think.
You started about 78, 79 is what you said.
Right, 78, 79.
Oh, well, maybe— But it never did occur to you to say, well, why don't I, in the magnanimity of my soul, give this to the state of Georgia?
No, not—
Anywhere near that.
I am not that type of a philanthropist.
So I sent a message.
Oh, absolutely.
You bet I am.
We made special cases for it and everything.
So you struck a deal with the state?
Not with the state.
With the family.
The family still owned it.
And they wanted to sell it to the university.
And they said, could you wait and see if we could still sell it, raise the money?
And if not, we will let you buy it.
And they weren't able to, so they informed us they would go ahead and sell it to us.
That must be a public figure.
Could you tell me what your case was?
No, no, it wasn't public, unfortunately.
At some price I can tell, but most I'd rather not.
You don't mind my asking.
At that time it was in six figures is all I could say to it.
High, middle, low?
Yeah, I forget.
It's okay.
The bringing prices, believe it or not, takes away from me.
I want to ask you a question, but it is incumbent upon me every once in a while to ask us to get a feel for where we are.
You can do that through some of these dealers.
You can get prices very quickly.
What they did was they hired the president of the American Manuscript Society to come to Georgia to pick it up.
and to bring it out to Santa Barbara.
And here, so this president of the manuscript side went there, he handed in a briefcase that was tied to his wrist, I don't know if it was a regular police thing, and he came out on the plane with his briefcase tied to his wrist, and he comes off the plane, we met him at the plane, because they weren't gonna mail it, they wanted to deliver it personally.
And that was, at that time was the one I had the great, I mean, because it was such a buildup, you know.
And I was absolutely dizzy when he was coming off thinking that here's the original Constitution of the United States of America.
And I was very dizzy.
In fact, I was dizzy for several days after that.
How do you suppose it would have felt if you lived in Boston?
California was part of the Union.
Yeah, but it's kind of out here.
It's really not.
That would be a problem.
That would be a problem, yes.
I think it would be.
I don't know.
The Athenaeum figures in a great story.
The Washington Coat of Arms.
It happens to be the Stars and Strikes.
You should look into that.
That's kind of true, yes.
That's how it happened.
That's how the flag was.
In fact, she looked at his book plate.
Yes, which had his coat of arms on it.
Which had his coat of arms.
From England.
English coat of arms.
And from that she fashioned the American flag.
Actually, you know, I am a little nervous about when people say that, my God, let's not let it out of Boston and let it go to England.
Fairly soon I think we're going to be one world, finally.
I hate to see these boundaries saying this occurred in Boston, so let's keep in Boston.
How do you get around that?
As an example, Santa Barbara was originally Spanish, because Spain owned all of them.
Especially in 1493, they owned all of both Americas.
England got in and France got in there, but definitely
When Juniper Serra came up and finally colonized California, he was Spanish.
I mean, it was under the Spanish crown, and the king ruled California, the Spanish king.
And so let's say Juniper Serra, who was the father of California, wrote a letter.
Now the question is, unless he wrote it in Santa Barbara, I don't know what you put it, or in San Francisco or in Los Angeles, whatever, the question is, is that a
Let's say it wrote in San Francisco.
Is that a document that should stay in San Francisco?
Or is it okay if that document remains in California?
Or should it go back to Spain?
Or, since it's after 1820, should it go to Mexico?
Because Mexico declared themselves independent of Spain, and therefore California was really Mexican all along,
Mexico was part of Spain at the time.
So is that letter Spanish, or is it Mexican?
Or, since the United States took over California in the 1840s, is it American?
Or is it San Franciscan?
Or is it California, the state of California?
So, when does every bit of chauvinism move, in other words?
Exactly.
Or the Catholic churches, because he was first and foremost... So you get into a very difficult situation there, and I think if the Iceland government wants a Uniprocerra document, good for them.
They can afford it.
That's fine, but that now will give you a lot of it.
If you mention that in the book, you'll get a lot of it, too.
I will.
I got a case with the Brooklyn Manuscript, Left England.
That's the only Anglo-Saxon document in North America.
Way of shaggy.
Is that right?
That's interesting.
I've watched, I've tried to get a couple of Anglo-Saxons.
There's been four or five that have come up to say anything.
They're always the last.
It's always, this is your last chance.
Oh, it is.
But the Brooklyn is a shaggy.
There's a few scraps around that have some of the Anglo-Saxons.
I've held this book.
Oh, you mean a printed annual time?
No, a manuscript.
A manuscript.
It's pre-conquest.
That's interesting, the whole book.
Well, it's quite a scandal.
If you're familiar with Ed Wolfe's book on Rosenbach, there's plenty to back it out.
Mr. Scheide is one of my friends.
You're in company with William Scheide, who's the only private owner of the Google Word Bible in the world.
How many interviews have you done?
Not many.
For local press, probably?
No.
We've been in the...
Let's see.
Marsha, where?
We've got to go look.
I couldn't have shot the picture if it was on, because you can't see.
Some of the interviews we've had, not local, but just hold it very carefully.
Oh, there's one thing.
Rendell, you know, every time we're in Rendell, it seems to be a commissure magazine.
Well, commissure?
No.
Oh, the Westways magazine.
Westlake, which is only in western United States, had a little amount of forms.
David is kind of obsessive about any... David's an obsessive person about any interest that he has.
When we got married, he was a coin collector and spent part of our honeymoon going to the back of corn.
It wasn't my idea of how it spent the honeymoon, but believe me.
But that's good to show you.
That is obsession channeled productively.
Yes, always.
This is a very productive obsession.
Yes, it is.
That's why.
That's another theme in my book.
You know, I mean, we can have obsessed people who are obsessed.
But there are those who take the obsession and do something magnificent.
Yeah.
I think that's true.
I haven't seen too many people who have been obsessed.
I haven't seen any.
I also have not known very many people who can focus very much.
Do you think his training as a mathematician?
When I first married him, I had to learn how to argue all over again.
When you think about it, we all have family patterns.
And you learn how to argue based on what you hear.
And suddenly you marry a man.
Well, that's not logical.
Where'd you get that from?
Everything has to be very analytical.
Yeah, so I learn.
Well, I can switch.
I'm a switch hitter.
I can argue logically or I can get emotional.
Well, look at the basics.
You could probably take the toughest person and be able to...
Okay.
Your wife just said you think that you're kind of obsessive.
Do you agree with that?
Oh, yes.
You have to be obsessive, I think.
Otherwise, it doesn't work.
So this is an obsession?
Yeah.
Is that bad?
No, it's wonderful.
It goes back to my title.
Oh, yes.
It's productive obsession, by the way.
I don't think anybody's not obsessive.
It's successful.
You have to be...
That's my opinion, of course, but I think you have to be as obsessed with something in order to be a super success for that.
So that means that success is the product of obsession.
This is Galileo.
His name is Galileo.
The first name is Galilei.
And here he is announcing the completion
of his new science, writing a book about his new science called Mechanics, which, gosh, seems like it was there all along.
Sorry, before I put this away, I'm sorry, you have to see this.
This is Galileo's handwritten announcement of the discovery of mechanics.
And I'm holding it in my hands.
I'm not touching it, but I'm holding it in my hand.
GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO GALILEO
This is one you might remember.
Back in school, did you read about a letter that George Washington wrote?
Where he says, just take a look, he says the... He gets Valley Forge.
Valley Forge, yeah.
And he says that he needs help and clothing and so forth because the men are barefoot and otherwise naked.
That's...
Part of American history.
Yes, that's in almost every history book inside.
And I'm just going to try to get right here.
Here you go.
Barefoot.
Where is it?
Barefoot and otherwise naked.
Barefoot.
I'm looking at it.
Barefoot and otherwise naked.
And that's where he describes how bad off they are.
And to whom did he write this letter?
Well, that's a good question.
We're not sure, actually.
Here's George Washington's signature here.
And he wrote gentlemen, which normally means gentlemen, which means... G-N-T.
It says, dated December 29th, 1777.
It says Head of... Headquarters, Valley Forge.
Headquarters, Valley Forge, December 29th, with a T-H, 1777.
There's a 50-50 chance a gentleman means a congress.
Right.
But for all we know, it could mean the...
Provincial Congress of New York or New Jersey or something.
So it's either a Provincial Congress or of the United States Federal Congress.
This is what we call historic fundraising.
Yeah, right, exactly.
He's looking for bucks.
It's in beautiful condition.
Yes, paper was much better years ago, and today's paper might be... From a dealer?
This was at an auction.
This was at a very small auction at
Swan.
It was.
Swan had this?
Swan, if you can believe it.
I can't believe it.
They estimated $4,000.
How can it be?
They didn't quote the letter.
They just said, or maybe they did quote it, but they didn't recognize it was the famous letter.
But who would have consigned it to Swan?
I mean, it should have gone to... Well, even Swan didn't even know what they had, and so we called up Bart and said...
Don't tell anybody you're going.
Don't tell anybody what you're bidding on.
Don't even look at the document.
I don't care if it's fake or not.
Just keep it cool.
So you know what it was?
Oh, yes.
Well, because, I mean, they did quote it, I guess, but they didn't say this is from the history.
And it was a quote that long.
They quoted the whole letter.
And so you had to read the letter to realize what it was.
And Bart said, boy, he was.
He had a grin on his face from ear to ear until all of a sudden, in comes
the secretary of Malcolm Forbes.
They missed that.
No, they didn't.
The secretary comes in, which means he was trying to send someone also not for raw suspicion.
And so he had his secretary come to bid on it because no one wanted to tell Swan what they had.
And so the bidding started, and it started at $2,000 or something like that.
It went real low, and it went up and up and up.
And about $30-some thousand, the secretary started sweating.
And he says he knew he had it.
And finally she gave up around $55,000 or something like that.
And she must have gone back and raised probably a $5,000.
No, she couldn't.
They put a limit on, so she couldn't.
Yeah, but Forbes generally... He generally grows himself, makes a big difference.
Oh, yeah, because he gets all the ink out of it.
I think, yeah, I think she was trying to pull fancy all this time.
Well, I mean, we've talked with him many times.
She's not that infallible, but...
I don't know why he sent the secretary, and no one else was around.
No one else was bidding on the secretary.
What was your mandate to buy?
You know, without giving any figures, do I get it?
I believe I had something like slightly under 100,000 or something.
I didn't want to go too, too high.
You know, I don't know why I said that.
I think 70, 80,000.
I don't know what I said.
You'd have been very disappointed if you didn't get it.
Yes, I would have been heartbroken if I didn't get it.
But, you know, you've got to say, you can't say unlimited.
because you can do a rostro-force type thing.
You can go crazy.
Here's the Constitutional Constitution.
I thought I'd bring that down because that's constitutional.
You notice you can put your hands on like this only because we have a sheet of mylar.
I'm not going to do that.
I might just put my hand on.
That's the mylar.
I don't want to pass the paper, too, if you want.
I will.
Is that more old?
No, that's exactly how it was.
Don't worry.
Okay.
I'm sticking here.
As you can see, the Confederate Constitution almost mimics the United States Constitution, such as we the people.
Same thing.
We the people of the Confederate States, each state acting for itself, comma, and then the sovereign and independent character, comma, in order to form a permanent
Federal, capital F, government, capital G. Establish justice, ensure with an E domestic tranquility, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, dash to which ends we invoke the favor and guidance of Almighty God.
Wow.
To ordain and establish this Constitution,
for the Confederate States of America.
That's the end of the first page.
Most of it is almost identical to our federal constitution, except they wanted the president for six years.
That's what we're trying to do right now, in fact.
Everybody says we should have the president longer.
One term, six years, and that's it.
Six years.
That's what they had, in fact.
Any bill that was proposed to Congress could only have one topic.
That's what they're trying to do, too, now.
Yeah, they knew what the fallacies, the bad parts of the Constitution.
Now, what do you think they said about slavery?
I'd love to know.
They outlawed slavery.
I mean, they outlawed importation of slavery.
That's in here.
That's in the Constitution.
Isn't that interesting?
So the South wasn't the nasty guy.
They were breeding, though.
They were reading them, but still, I mean, importation is a big business, and you can buy more and keep the price.
If they cut off importation of slaves, if they don't have importation of slaves, the price goes up, and when you buy one and buy a new one, you have to pay a higher price.
Actually, the... I didn't know that.
Importation of slaves, I think, had been stopped many years prior.
Did you learn that in reading this document?
Yeah, reading this, right.
Reading this, and it's...
in the archival state i think i took a xerox of it first and then but nevertheless yeah but what i'm saying is you learned it yes after having acquired now that was a law of an american law prior to this we couldn't import places like 1806 or something even though the united states was the last major country in the world
But what the South did not want to do is they didn't want to lose their huge investments that they already had.
That's the problem.
That's why the Civil War, because if they could have been reimbursed for their losses, they would have been fined.
But to say, OK, we're going to stop slavery and you're going to have to claim bankruptcy, they didn't want to do it.
I'm sure many of them were just as concerned about human rights and so forth.
Wow.
And there's some other changes, too, from our other constitution.
Is this a box that you had made for it?
Yeah, we made that.
Some of these are—this we made, this one was existing, this one's existing.
Some we had made, this one's existing, this one we had made.
Okay.
But you do that, in other words, when you do that?
Yeah, there are case makers or book case makers, or whatever you want to call it.
This one was already made.
This is the Thanksgiving proclamation in the United States, proclaiming Thanksgiving as a national holiday.
It's also a sign by George Washington.
This is George Washington, of course, since he was first president, proclaiming Thanksgiving as a national holiday.
Do you have a date on it?
1783, October 3rd?
1789.
1789, of course.
Given under my hand at the city of New York, Thursday of October and the year of our Lord... The third day of October.
The third day of October and the year of our Lord, 1789, G. Washington.
And it says at the top, by the... I can't make it out.
By the President of the United States of America, a proclamation, whereas it is a duty... Well, I don't even read the whole thing.
He is declaring Thanksgiving.
Right.
Wow.
It's actually quite... It's wonderful.
I mean, if you need the wording... That should be in the National Art Times.
You know that, don't you?
I think there is two or three copies of this, and I think they have one.
Okay.
I should mention again that some of these are unique documents in that they only wrote one.
But like this, when he's proclamation, he couldn't have taken this document to every state, for example, so he probably wrote 13 of them.
But in his own hand?
This is in the secretary hand.
He signed it in his own hand.
And the word third is in his own hand.
That's very important.
Yeah.
The main body of the text is in another hand.
Yes, that's correct.
He has signed it and dated it.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so somebody wrote out.
That's one of perhaps several things.
I think they wrote out that he had, well, he didn't devise the proclamation.
Some of the secretary who wrote it, probably wrote it out.
He was probably the PhD.
You don't expect the president of the United States to do all this.
There was no such thing as a draft in his hand.
Some secretary probably drafted it out and then wrote these.
and then he signed me.
And there's probably, I think there's three million left out of the 13 million president, which is a shame in itself.
What happened in the other 10?
But National Archives has one.
I think there's, I think New York has one.
And all the other states have food care.
Again, at auction?
This was plumbing.
Good for John.
16,000.
And John offered it to you?
Yes.
Essentially, so actually, we were visiting him one day.
He says, here's something might interest you.
I said, you've got to be kidding me.
What?
Is it a joke?
You know what I mean?
It might be interesting.
He says, well, I was saving himself.
You know, we very rarely get to these places.
And so he was saving.
He didn't want to call us or write us or anything.
He wanted to actually present us with it as when we came.
That's a nice John Fleming story.
Yes, yeah.
So he made it.
I mean, John Fleming's in my book, too, by the way.
He's a wonder.
I really enjoyed it.
Loved his library.
Here's a letter of Martin Luther marking the recognition of the Protestant movement.
We're not talking about a little letter, you know.
Yeah, this is... Well, what had happened... I've got all kinds of Luther letters in here.
Just a pile of Luther letters in here.
Let's see here.
Yes, this is the one recognizing the
Yeah.
This is the one that he wrote to his king, who was a... In Germany, they didn't have kings.
They had electors or something.
Something.
To his leader.
To his sovereign, let's say.
His sovereign, right.
Kurfürst, they call him.
K-U-R?
Kurfürst.
Yeah.
Don't worry about that.
Maybe a duke.
Maybe he's a duke or something like that.
But they had little states who were independent.
They call them dukes.
But they were equal to kings.
The king of England was equal to them.
And he is announcing?
And what had happened was that the Catholic religion did not recognize these protesting people who Luther was the most vocal of them.
However, in about 1532, Turks, who pretty much were, here's Europe and here's the Ottoman Empire, and they were pretty much
on an equal basis uh in that half the time the pokes would be over here in constant mobile and half time they'd be in rome i mean they sort of went back and forth so whether or not europe was the head of the world or whether turkey was or the ottoman empire was a good question and the border which is along maybe between hungary and austria or something like that is a lot of there was a lot of wars between the turks and the europeans and of course
There would be some, sometimes France would get together with Turkey and they would fight Italy or something.
And so there was always this border between the Turks and the Europeans.
And the Turks were about to attack Rome.
And because the Pope was in Rome and said Constantinople at this time.
And so the Pope asked Luther if his protesting people would help by joining the army, the Pope's army.
And Luther said, you've got to be kidding.
You know, here you won't let out, you won't even recognize us and you want us to fight for you.
So Luther sent back the, I'm paraphrasing this.
I'm just real quick.
Go ahead, please.
I sent back the message to him.
If you recognize our movement, we will help you fight the Turks.
And the Pope had no choice.
And so he offered, yes, we will, he had several stipulations, but he essentially said,
We will recognize the Protestant movement if you, the Protestants, join our army and fight the church.
And here is, this is the letter where Luther is accepting the, his suggestion.
And that's 1532.
1532, yeah.
Wow.
Since I have no other Luther, that's, that's why, it's hard to read because it's in German, of course.
Here's another Luther letter, and this one,
This is a letter written in 1530 where the Pope was trying to get Luther to come back.
In fact, Luther thought he was a Catholic.
It was just that he wanted to change the church.
They had a meeting called the Augsburg Confession where Luther was supposed to come
and confess his sins.
Although, of course, Luther's idea was he was going to present his proclamation, Protestant proclamation, and that would be the basis of the Protestant religion.
And this was a letter to a fellow named Philip Melaschthon, who was his right-hand Philip Melaschthon, who was, if you looked in any of the religious books, Luther is number one, Melaschthon is number two as far as being famous.
And Philip was his right-hand man at the Augsburg Confession and was trying to put across Luther's program.
And in this, and Philip had written back, they aren't buying it, they just won't accept our terms.
And so here Luther says, okay, try it once more, and if they don't accept our theses, then give up.
Has he already banged the theses on the door at this point?
Yeah, 10 years prior, 11 years prior.
But this is, the Augsburg Confession, they did present the basis of the Protestant religion.
And we even have one more here where he is telling how he is spreading the doctrine.
This is much later on, 1545.
And he says, we have people in Turkey, we have people in Hungary.
Our disciples, some of our disciples are already in Turkey.
You're translating this.
Yeah.
Well, no, this is in English.
I can't read German.
And he's telling you how his evangelizing is going.
That's a few.
There's even more.
These you keep in the house, I notice.
Well, only because we were working on them.
I have some others I'd love to show you, but I don't have them with at the moment.
Yes.
Some of these, they can only study Xeroxes, and they have to have credentials and so forth in some cases.
But that happens.
We have to do that everywhere we go.
this happens to be the one that i said was my favorite this is the pope lucius the third for claiming the sacred all right this is state again now this is a large thing that i've never described for my typist here yes uh and i would say it's perhaps three feet by perhaps two and a half feet yeah and it's on vellum it's on the animal skin of sorts
That's a papal seal there.
That actually is part of the Pope's signature.
He probably made this little cross at the top.
Although, also, these things which say SS are means subscripti, meaning, which should mean, everybody thinks it means, I wrote this myself.
In fact, this is ego means I,
So-and-so.
This is the true collector, by the way.
Is that right?
The true collector knows his collection.
But what I've written in my notes here as you're talking, as I said, he knows his collection.
You're telling me about, you're giving me the history of Martin Luther.
Yes.
And you see, this isn't just a document.
you understand the context i'm sorry become a amateur historian amateur scientist amateur but again what did we call this document so what would the title of the nation or it's a decree proclaiming a decree for proclaiming the sacred duty of the knights of the holy crusades a decree proclaiming the sacred duty duty of the knights of the holy crusades this
authorizes and sanctions the Crusades.
Tell us what their duties are and how they are supposed to save their maidens and so forth.
The Crusades.